We're now going to see how to create a collection and do
some basic operations with documents using the Mongo Shell.
The Mongo Shell is an interactive JavaScript interface to MongoDB.
If you do not know JavaScript don't sweat it.
The syntax is very readable and intuitive.
If you just type in DB,
it shows the current database.
In this case, it's Course3.
Assume that the DB is exposed as an object with functions on it.
Those functions can be used to operate on this database.
Let's go ahead and create a collection that will hold some patient records.
A collection in MongoDB is analogous to a table in a relational database.
But notice that when I create a collection,
I didn't specify the structure of the documents that the collection will hold.
In MongoDB, the collection is just a namespace for your documents.
Now, let's insert a patient record into the collection.
As you can see from the right result,
one record got inserted.
Let's use the find method to check if the patient record got inserted.
As I said, if a document does not include an underscore ID field,
MongoDB will generate one automatically.
You can also insert multiple documents at the same time by passing in an array
to the insert method like this.
This inserted two documents.
Let's run Find again to check it.
You can also make find provide
a prettier output that's more readable by using the pretty method.
Since there's no schema,
let's insert another patient record which includes a gender field.
Notice that the earlier documents did not include the gender field.
There you go, it got inserted.
Lets run Find again.
You can see the last inserted document has a gender field,
but the rest of the documents do not.
This is completely fine in MongoDB.
Now, if you want to update another document to include the gender field,
the update method can be used.
The first argument includes the query to find the document.
Notice that the second argument of the update method includes
the entire document even though only the gender field needs to be updated.
If you include just the gender field,
the entire document will be replaced with just that field.
So let's go ahead and run this method.
Let's run Find again.
Now, you can see this document which we selected by
using the first name has the gender field in it.
Update also supports operators to set,
remove, and rename fields.
To set the field,
the dollar set operator is used.
Let's see an example of the $set operator in action.
Here, the first argument selects the document that needs to be updated,
and in the second argument we used
the $set operator and provide only the field that needs to be set.
Let's run that. It matched one and it modified one.
Let's run Find again.
Then you can see that the match document now has a gender field.
Similarly, you can use the $unset and the $rename operators to remove and rename fields.
Let's see what happens if the update includes a query that matches no documents.
In this method, the first argument says that
we need to find a document whose first name is Eduardo.
We do not have a document matching this criteria,
let's see what happens.
It didn't match anything.
MongoDB supports upserts whether a document
is inserted during update if it doesn't exist.
Let's see how to use upsert and insert a document if it's not found.
Now, you can see Update includes a third argument where the upsert field is set to true.
The result clearly tells us that a document was upserted, not modified.
Let's run Find again to check our upserted document.
There you have it. You have a new document which just got upserted.
Finally, to remove a document we can use the remove method.
Let's remove the upserted document.
It says it removed one.
Let's run Find again,
and the document is gone.
There you go. You just learned how to use the Mongo Shell to work with documents.